{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Lato-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red109\green109\blue109;
\red72\green121\blue214;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11940\viewh7800\viewkind0
\deftab720

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trcbpat3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth15380\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Dear Silvio,\'a0\
\
Please find below a google drive link to a banner I've designed for a forthcoming exhibition at Furtherfield this autumn. The phrase 'stress the mother of all emotions' is from a neuromarketing text book, and acts as a section heading looking at the 's-point' and how to force consumers to make decisions quickly by raising stress levels.\'a0\
\
It's part of a new body of work called 'Are we all addicts now?' which looks at online behavioural addictions and digital dependencies. These conditions are exacerbated by the demands of precarious working conditions within network culture - where as Kayzs Varnelis describes - power resides in a concentration of connections. These concentrations only develop with ever-increasing time on device / platform...\'a0\
\
Depending on the format of the zine - I also have a more regular rectangular version but personally prefer this one.\'a0\
\
The zine sounds super interesting - so whether you accept this or not - I'd like to be added to the mailing list and stay in touch with what you are doing!\'a0\
\
Very best wishes\
\
Katriona\'a0\
\
More on AWAAN:\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\i\fs26 \cf2 Are We All Addicts Now?
\i0 \'a0is an enquiry by Katriona Beales into the normalization of addictive behaviours through our everyday interactions with digital devices. Beales is interested in how much of our online interactions are channelled through platforms that are designed to be addictive, utilising various neuro-marketing techniques to keep the user on device. These strategies stem from BF Skinner's seminal research around variable reward and operant conditioning, raising questions around mechanisms of control, agency and manipulation - and the position of the\'a0
\i addict\'a0
\i0 as a perfect capitalist subject. This new body of Beales' work incorporates glass sculptures, moving image and digitally printed textiles which will be displayed in a series of installations at Furtherfield (opening 15th Sept 2017). AWAAN develops Beales' 2015 work\'a0
\i 'White Matter'
\i0 \'a0(a FACT commission) which is showing at the University of New South Wales, Sydney as part of Anxiety Festival (Sept 2017). AWAAN has been developed in collaboration with Dr Henrietta Bowden-Jones (a clinical psychiatrist and one of the UK's leading experts in online behavioural addiction), curator Vanessa Bartlett and artist Fiona MacDonald : Feral Practice. Accompanying the exhibition, a book designed by Stefan Schafer and edited by Vanessa Bartlett and Henrietta Bowden-Jones, brings together Beales' and MacDonald's artwork with a variety of academic and biomedical perspectives. This book will be expanded on at a symposium at Central St Martins in November 2017.\'a0\
See the project tumblr\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://online-addict.tumblr.com/"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 https://online-addict.tumblr.com}}\cell \lastrow\row
}